content/authors/iwbda-2024/_index.md, before:

---
title: IWBDA 2024

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: false

conf_date: 16-19 November, 2024

conf_location: Boston, Massachusetts, USA


important_dates:
 - name: Abstract Submission
   date: ~~September 29, 2024~~ October 13, 2024
 - name: Workshop Submission
   date: ~~September 29, 2024~~ October 13, 2024
 - name: Notice of Acceptance
   date: October 15, 2024
# - name: Workshops
#   date: September 11-14, 2023
# - name: Nona Works
#   date: September 11-14, 2023
# - name: Special Issue Submission Deadline
#   date: April 30, 2024
# - name: Late breaking lightning talks submission
#   date: August 23, 2023
# - name: Workshop proposal - submission deadline
#   date: ~~July 30, 2023~~ August 23, 2023
# - name: Abstract submission - Early deadline
#   date: June 23, 2023
# - name: Abstract submission - Regular deadline
#   date: ~~July 14, 2023~~ July 31, 2023

#important_links:
#- name: Abstract Submission
#  link: https://easychair.org/my/conference?conf=iwbda23
#- name: Workshop Proposal Submission
#  link: https://tinyurl.com/BioDesignWeekWorkshops
#- name: Registration
#  link: /2023/#registration
#- name: Agenda
#  link: /2023/#agenda
#- name: Conference Logistics
#  link: /2023/#logistics
#- name: Nona Works 2023
#  link: https://www.nonasoftware.org/nonaworks23
#- name: SBOL Workshops Registration
#  link: https://forms.gle/7TA6kgqx54Pg3Rz77

#contact:
#- name: Traci Haddock
#  link: 'mailto:traci@asimov.com'
#- name: Natasa Miskov-Zivanov
#  link: mailto:nmzivanov@pitt.edu

# - name: Breakouts/Tutorials submission
#   link: https://forms.gle/4VHZTxR5FcY2GLhR8
# - name: Agenda
#   link: TBA
# - name: Conference Book
#   link: TBA

#information:
#- name: Submission Guidelines
#  description: Abstracts and workshop proposals must be submitted via [EasyChair](https://easychair.org/my/conference?conf=iwbda23). Submissions cannot exceed two pages (excluding figures and tables). If you do not have an EasyChair account, please create one by following the instructions specified [here](https://easychair.org/help/account_creation). We encourage abstracts for posters and/or talks at IWBDA 2023 on ongoing research that may be submitted as a full journal paper later. We are currently in talks with ACS Synthetic Biology to set up a special issue on bio-design automation for such extended journal submissions.
#  link: https://forms.gle/Em226LwEQsuJedkf7
#- name: Organizers
#  description: The COMBINE 2022 meeting is organised by Dagmar Waltemath and Matthias König.
#  link: ../people/

topics:
- Design methodologies for synthetic biology
- Standardization of biological components
- Biosecurity in lab automation processes
- Biopreparedness through bio-design automation
- Artificial intelligence and machine learning in synthetic biology
- Computer aided design tools and automation for engineering biology
- Biofoundries and their impact on synthetic biology
- Formalized protocol capture
- Design Build Test Case studies
- Synthetic Biology education and outreach

#featuredtheme:
#- Biosecurity

 

# Organizational groups that you belong to (for People widget)
#   Set this to `[]` or comment out if you are not using People widget.
user_groups:
- Current Event

---
![IWBDA 2024 Logo](iwbda2024_logo.png)



<!--
<b>Now Open:</b> Submissions for our late breaking lightning talks for IWBDA!

Submit a short abstract between 100-200 words in length to be considered for our late breaking lightning talks. You may also include up to one figure, but it’s not a requirement.
Abstracts must be submitted through the [IWBDA EasyChair](https://easychair.org/my/conference?conf=iwbda23). Submissions cannot exceed 200 words (or 1 page if figure is included). 

If you do not have an EasyChair account, please create one by following the instructions specified [here](https://easychair.org/help/account_creation). Please check [Submission Guidelines](/2023/#submission-guidelines) for additional details including submission format.

Submissions are due by Wednesday, August 23.
-->

# Call for Papers
Join us for the 16th annual IWBDA meeting, in Boston, November 16-19, 2024. This year, IWBDA will take place during [Bio Innovation Week](https://biodesign-automation-consortium.github.io/Bio-Innovation-Week/) and will include presentation and poster talks selected from submitted abstracts, Birds of a Feather discussions, and breakout sessions on selected topics. We aim to bring together academic researchers and industry partners to push the field of bio-design automation for synthetic biology forward.

The field of biology is still lagging behind the industry when it comes to implementation and adoption of computational and digital solutions. This is primarily because it is extremely difficult to offer a one-size-fits-all solution to engineer biology. Some BDA solutions serve as templates for a larger problem, but, to make it usable in a practical setting, the solutions often have to be redesigned for bespoke biological workflows. Without understanding the requirements of the broader synthetic biology community, it is hard to design a solution that can have a wider impact. 

Increasing the efficiency of biological processes and workflows with biodesign automation is a continuous journey that requires fresh exchange of ideas. It is crucial for the BDA community to have a forum where they can collaborate, gather new perspectives, and understand the requirements of the broader synthetic biology community. IWBDA provides this forum for cross-disciplinary discussion, with the aim of seeding and fostering collaboration between the researchers from the synthetic biology, systems biology, and design automation communities.

Commit message:

Added scholarship information to the website.

content/authors/iwbda-2024/_index.md, after:

---
title: IWBDA 2024

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: false

conf_date: 16-19 November, 2024

conf_location: Boston, Massachusetts, USA


important_dates:
 - name: Abstract Submission
   date: ~~September 29, 2024~~ October 13, 2024
 - name: Workshop Submission
   date: ~~September 29, 2024~~ October 13, 2024
 - name: Notice of Acceptance
   date: October 15, 2024
# - name: Workshops
#   date: September 11-14, 2023
# - name: Nona Works
#   date: September 11-14, 2023
# - name: Special Issue Submission Deadline
#   date: April 30, 2024
# - name: Late breaking lightning talks submission
#   date: August 23, 2023
# - name: Workshop proposal - submission deadline
#   date: ~~July 30, 2023~~ August 23, 2023
# - name: Abstract submission - Early deadline
#   date: June 23, 2023
# - name: Abstract submission - Regular deadline
#   date: ~~July 14, 2023~~ July 31, 2023

#important_links:
#- name: Abstract Submission
#  link: https://easychair.org/my/conference?conf=iwbda23
#- name: Workshop Proposal Submission
#  link: https://tinyurl.com/BioDesignWeekWorkshops
#- name: Registration
#  link: /2023/#registration
#- name: Agenda
#  link: /2023/#agenda
#- name: Conference Logistics
#  link: /2023/#logistics
#- name: Nona Works 2023
#  link: https://www.nonasoftware.org/nonaworks23
#- name: SBOL Workshops Registration
#  link: https://forms.gle/7TA6kgqx54Pg3Rz77

#contact:
#- name: Traci Haddock
#  link: 'mailto:traci@asimov.com'
#- name: Natasa Miskov-Zivanov
#  link: mailto:nmzivanov@pitt.edu

# - name: Breakouts/Tutorials submission
#   link: https://forms.gle/4VHZTxR5FcY2GLhR8
# - name: Agenda
#   link: TBA
# - name: Conference Book
#   link: TBA

#information:
#- name: Submission Guidelines
#  description: Abstracts and workshop proposals must be submitted via [EasyChair](https://easychair.org/my/conference?conf=iwbda23). Submissions cannot exceed two pages (excluding figures and tables). If you do not have an EasyChair account, please create one by following the instructions specified [here](https://easychair.org/help/account_creation). We encourage abstracts for posters and/or talks at IWBDA 2023 on ongoing research that may be submitted as a full journal paper later. We are currently in talks with ACS Synthetic Biology to set up a special issue on bio-design automation for such extended journal submissions.
#  link: https://forms.gle/Em226LwEQsuJedkf7
#- name: Organizers
#  description: The COMBINE 2022 meeting is organised by Dagmar Waltemath and Matthias König.
#  link: ../people/

topics:
- Design methodologies for synthetic biology
- Standardization of biological components
- Biosecurity in lab automation processes
- Biopreparedness through bio-design automation
- Artificial intelligence and machine learning in synthetic biology
- Computer aided design tools and automation for engineering biology
- Biofoundries and their impact on synthetic biology
- Formalized protocol capture
- Design Build Test Case studies
- Synthetic Biology education and outreach

#featuredtheme:
#- Biosecurity

 

# Organizational groups that you belong to (for People widget)
#   Set this to `[]` or comment out if you are not using People widget.
user_groups:
- Current Event

---
![IWBDA 2024 Logo](iwbda2024_logo.png)


# Announcements

IWBDA Scholarships are available for students, postdocs, and young researchers. {{<staticref "uploads/IWBDA_Scholarships_2024.pdf" "newtab">}} Please see this PDF for details.{{</staticref>}}.

This year applications will be accepted via this Google form: [Scholarship Application Form](https://forms.gle/MrButFeYMsefvs8i7).


<!--
<b>Now Open:</b> Submissions for our late breaking lightning talks for IWBDA!

Submit a short abstract between 100-200 words in length to be considered for our late breaking lightning talks. You may also include up to one figure, but it’s not a requirement.
Abstracts must be submitted through the [IWBDA EasyChair](https://easychair.org/my/conference?conf=iwbda23). Submissions cannot exceed 200 words (or 1 page if figure is included). 

If you do not have an EasyChair account, please create one by following the instructions specified [here](https://easychair.org/help/account_creation). Please check [Submission Guidelines](/2023/#submission-guidelines) for additional details including submission format.

Submissions are due by Wednesday, August 23.
-->

# Call for Papers
Join us for the 16th annual IWBDA meeting, in Boston, November 16-19, 2024. This year, IWBDA will take place during [Bio Innovation Week](https://biodesign-automation-consortium.github.io/Bio-Innovation-Week/) and will include presentation and poster talks selected from submitted abstracts, Birds of a Feather discussions, and breakout sessions on selected topics. We aim to bring together academic researchers and industry partners to push the field of bio-design automation for synthetic biology forward.

The field of biology is still lagging behind the industry when it comes to implementation and adoption of computational and digital solutions. This is primarily because it is extremely difficult to offer a one-size-fits-all solution to engineer biology. Some BDA solutions serve as templates for a larger problem, but, to make it usable in a practical setting, the solutions often have to be redesigned for bespoke biological workflows. Without understanding the requirements of the broader synthetic biology community, it is hard to design a solution that can have a wider impact. 

Increasing the efficiency of biological processes and workflows with biodesign automation is a continuous journey that requires fresh exchange of ideas. It is crucial for the BDA community to have a forum where they can collaborate, gather new perspectives, and understand the requirements of the broader synthetic biology community. IWBDA provides this forum for cross-disciplinary discussion, with the aim of seeding and fostering collaboration between the researchers from the synthetic biology, systems biology, and design automation communities.
